Selwyn and Pip Job. We’re at Cumnock um..
central west of New South Wales.
Biodiversity it is ultimately um… well bio
is living things. Diversity is obviously lots
of different types of things.
In a natural, if we’re looking at this natural
setting biodiversity would be in the different
types of species that are here. Plants and
animals and birds and um microscopic organisms
and biology and things.
And then it’s that genetic diversity so
just like we have in the human race, lots
of different genetics, building different
genetic strengths and so on. So, that’s
ultimately what biodiversity is.
Ecologists and scientists around the world
do say that biodiversity is probably the most
critical issue there is to human kind.
For without it, you sacrifice all sorts of
things and you put yourself at an incredible
risk of susceptibility to environmental challenges
that can happen and that’s not just from
droughts and floods that’s from… just
say locus plague is a great one. So there
are biological threats as well.
If you have a genuine care for.. whether it’s
the natural world or that you leave your land
in a better place than when you got it, it’s
about your attitude and how you perceive the
world that we live in.
I try not to think that what we’re doing
is sustainability ’cos to me that reflects
that um.. you’re comfortable where you are.
I’d rather see that what we’re trying
to do is regenerative. We won’t accept stagnation.
Trying to just keep going forward. Repair
the landscape and do greater things with it,
bring it back to it’s potential.
Having kids made me probably appreciate more
that we’re not the only living thing that’s
here. I often like to say that what we’re
doing is not just for the human species, but
that we’re actually trying to look after
future generations of plants, birds, animals
‘cos we’ll have to live here together
and it’s biodiversity we all need to interact
together. If we don’t have this, we don’t
have a human race.
It couldn’t be more simple than that.